Even though they've only
been around since 2014, GANs have already achieved super impressive performance
across a multitude of tasks. If you haven't seen
some of their results, you're in for a treat. In this video, I'll show you some cool applications of GANs, like the generation of realistic human faces and the animation of famous artworks. Then you'll get to see some of the amazing projects major
companies are using them for. This tweet is from
Ian Goodfellow, who is widely regarded
as the creator of GANs. It shows a striking
visualization of the rate at which GANs have
improved over the years. You can see how GANs
have progressed from black and white and rather
inhuman looking faces in 2014 to much higher quality colored photorealistic
faces in 2018. They've been getting actually even better up until this day. Case-in-point, progress has
only increased since then in early 2020 in video realistic GAN that could generate
images like these, which are so high resolution and look like
professional photographs. They have a soft background
effect and everything. It's easy to think that
these people are real, but they actually don't
exist. Amazing, isn't it? GANs can learn from whatever
training data they're given. They're not limited to
reproducing human faces. Here's the model, the
same one from before, but this time producing cats. If you look closely, you can see some really weird
looking images because not every generated example
is perfect in this case. There is some semblance
of a cat going on here, but of course I've no
idea what that is. Also something that's
pretty cool is that you can actually observe
images with texts on them. This happens because
as mentioned before, generative models try to
mimic the distribution of the data you're using to
train them on, in this case, the training data
with scraped from the web of all of these cats and this includes a lot of cat memes with meme
texts on them. What's funny of course is that these meme texts on the
generated cat memes don't actually make up words because the generative model is
not trying to model words, but rather the visual
realistic effect. That being said,
some of these are actually pretty cute and realistic even though they might not be ready for Reddit just yet. GANs can also perform
image translation, which just means they
can take an image from one domain and transform
it into another. For instance, they can
transform an image of a horse into a zebra
and vice versa. What's really interesting is
that you don't actually need examples of a zebra and a
horse doing the same things, and instead just transfer
that style over. In the same way, GANs
can help you draw. This model can take
a rough drawing of a landscape and make
it photorealistic. So you can have brushstrokes
here on the left. This is a person putting really rough brushstrokes
together of different classes, such as a cloud, or a mountain, or a lake. Then the GAN, from this really rough sketch is able to produce something
really photorealistic. In this GIF, a person
is able to make rough sketches with just
a few lines and color, and then the GAN can transform them into realistic pictures. GAN can also take a still-life
portrait, for example, the Mona Lisa, and animate it using the motion of any
real person's face. They don't even have to look like a Mona Lisa to play the part. If you're reminded of the
talking portraits at Hogwarts, you're not alone, in a
sense, GANs are magic. GANs don't stop at 2D images, they can also generate 3D
objects like chairs and tables. These can be applied
to fields like generative design where you can create cool furniture
for your house. There are also
diverse applications in medicine where you
can use your GAN for generating artificial
medical data or even detecting abnormalities
in X-rays. You'll get to see more
on this in course 3, but showing all the
cool applications out there could take hours. Several prominent companies
have also started using generative adversarial
networks for a variety of applications. For instance, Adobe is thinking about the
next generation of Photoshop where novice artists can perform at an expert level, for example, with those doodles. Google is using them for
text generation largely, but also with images. IBM is using GANs for
data augmentation, so using a GAN to generate
synthetic examples to augment the dataset for
a classifier downstream, for example, if you don't
have enough data of a certain class or of a
certain type of image. Snapchat and TikTok
put them to work in creative new filters which
you've probably seen and used. Even Disney is using them
for super-resolution. At the end of the specialization, you'll be able to
use GANs as well for whatever
application you like. In summary, you saw the rapid advancements that GANs have achieved in
the last few years. Well, I showed you several
really cool applications, I mentioned the way that some major companies
are using GANs. There are many more
things to do with GANs, and many potential directions you could take for
using these models.